Well, we were way off-base. But, when I realized that, it actually led to quite the breakthrough. So, your dad said his grandmother was born in Marion, Iowa, right? Yes. I scoured land records, marriage records, nothing. But, then I remembered that Marion is actually quite a common town name. And then, I recalled the description in the love letters about biking to the lake. There's no lake in Marion, Iowa. However, there is a lake just outside of Marion, Illinois. And once I started looking into that Marion, everything fell into place. And here, the house where she grew up. It's still standing. - This is amazing. - Mm-hm. Strange, my dad was so sure about Iowa. Well, that's the tricky part. You know, it's actually really easy to get your mind stuck on one thing and then you end up with tunnel vision without even knowing it. Yes, of course a lot of this work is actually records and fact-finding, but I think it's important to keep yourself open to the tiniest clues. Unexpected details, they can be hiding in the most human part of the story. Just waiting to be found. I hope it's ok, but I went ahead and finished your tree. This is beautiful, Kyla. And just on time for Christmas. Mm-hm. Unfortunately, there's nothing revelatory, but I thought you'd enjoy this picture of your grandparents. - Hey, Kyla. - Hi. I'm just wondering, where are we on the agriculture of Michigan research? Oh, ah, yeah, still just that last section to go. That tree farmer's been really difficult to get ahold of. However... Ha. I did finish this write-up on the upper peninsula copper mining outlaws. It's a tad more intriguing than asparagus and squash. And you know me, I prefer the more human-centric projects. Their storytelling, revelations, twists and turns. That's where you and I differ. For me, there's nothing better than the quiet solitude of a cup of tea and a stack of old land records. Thanks. Bye. Which was Nana's favorite again? Oh, the red one with snowflakes. Dad gave it to her on their first Christmas as newlyweds. Oh, speaking of, I reached out to Grandpa's business partner. I thought maybe there'd be something family related in the old office storage. I thought you stopped looking in to that. I did, but, sometimes I get a flash of inspiration. I can't not try, right? Now, while I think it would be wonderful to find our ancestors and our relatives, I am certainly not disappointed in our little family. I suppose you two will have to be responsible for branching out the family tree. It's not very subtle, Mom. Do we have to go to Mexico? What about snow, or what about the smell of a wood-burning stove? What about hot cocoa? My goal was to get you far away from work. We haven't been on a vacation for years. Last time was your pick and you chose staycation while secretly working on your dissertation the whole time. Ok, yeah, but that wasn't Christmas time. And is it really so wrong that I love my work as a historical researcher? No, not at all. It's just, it's, it's noble, in fact. You know, connecting people to one another. It's just... I think what your sister is trying to say is, what about your own connections? - Yeah. - Yeah. Yeah. Fair point. Hey, Kyla, do you have a second? Yeah, sure. What's up? Did you happen to get hold of that tree farm owner? No, not yet. I figured it would be easier after the holiday. Why? Due to dropping membership numbers, our Wilkinson endowment fell through. What? But they're our biggest donor. I'm hoping the Northern Midwest grant can make up the loss in the short term. But they have a special interest in... Agriculture. Right. So, I'm hoping that we can fast track it so we can get it in on time. How fast? We should probably hit the ground running right after Christmas. What if I told you I could get it to you by Christmas? I mean, the deadline's right around the corner and it is a Christmas tree farm, right? Wouldn't it be best to get the pictures, interviews, details of the place at its most vibrant? Aren't you leaving for Mexico tomorrow? Yeah, but this is way too important for MHS, it can't wait. I'm sure my sister will understand. Besides, why would I go to the beach right before Christmas when I can experience the magic of the state's oldest Christmas tree farm. Except for the unfortunate fact that you haven't managed to get ahold of the proprietor yet. Right. On it. Great. Hello? Hello, Cody Samuelson? Uh yeah, I'm here. I've just got bad reception, I can't really hear ya. Hi, I have been trying to reach you for a really long time. Uh, my name is Kyla Whitmore, I am a researcher from the Michigan Heritage Society. The horticultural researcher? My father contacted you? Uh, yeah. Yeah, I guess you could say I'm a cultural researcher, that's definitely one part of the job. I can't really hear you and this is not a great time. So, I was hoping to come by, maybe tomorrow, and take an interview with you? Maybe get a tour, take some pictures of your farm, see it in full Christmas swing? Well, did you say tomorrow? No, no, no, that's not good. I think I got good? That's good? No, no, not not good. Tomorrow, as you can imagine, this is our busiest time of the year. Ok, I am getting good and I am an optimist so I am gonna go with that. Uh... hello? You still there? On the off chance that you can still hear me, I'm gonna come by tomorrow around noon and I will come find you. Ok, listen, if you can still hear me, do not come tomorrow. Do not come. Fantastic, I can't wait too. Ok, I'll see you then. Bye! Ok, bye. Ugh. There's another version of my life where I'm on a warm beach, sipping on a refreshing frozen daiquiri. Well, instead you get to be invigorated by winter's chill and then warm up with some mulled wine. Mm. I think it's an even trade. Yeah, I do love mulled wine, but don't pretend you didn't just turn our sister vacation into a work trip. Only partly. - Besides, MHS thanks you. - Hm. Hello? I promise I'll finish my research right away and then we'll enjoy this place. A hundred percent on vacation, ok? Sure, why not. But to be clear, this does not technically count as vacation activity. Fair. It's really quiet. I did say noon. Maybe they're all on their lunch break. Maybe. We've gotta figure out the logistics of these deliveries and the farm tours. It's easy. You don't do the deliveries on your own because of your back and I don't do the farm tour because I like it better that way. Besides, you love giving the tour. Why mess with a good thing? Well, because it's not fair that you get to do all the heavy lifting without me. My back is fine, by the way. And really, you should conduct the tour occasionally. It, it's, it's good for the soul. It's, it's, it's in your blood. It's... Ok. It's just talking to people. Ok. I'll, I'll give the tour tomorrow. - Yeah? - Yeah. Ok, then we really should sit down and discuss options for the farm. You know, maybe it's time to industrialize. Change to meet the growing market, right? Make it easier on ourselves, make it easier on you. Dad, do we have to have this conversation on one of our busiest days? Fair point. When do you wanna have it? Just set a time. Uh, sometime later. I'll have my people call your people. Yeah, that's not a time. Maybe this is him. Oh good. Right on time. Perfect. Hello, Cody Samuelson? That's me. Great, we spoke on the phone. We did? Yeah. I'm Kyla Whitmore, researcher with the Michigan Heritage Society. Sap. Oh. Right, of course, I'm sure that happens all the time. Anyway, we agreed to meet, so here I am. Uh, I don't think we agreed to meet today, I'm pretty sure we talked about getting started in March. March? Uh, no, no, definitely, definitely not March. Look, you're the horticulturalist, right? Horticulturalist? No, but, I like that. That's a really good idea for a business card name, you know, like horticulturalist but for family trees... Mandy: Oh! Absolutely. So, you're not the horticulturalist? No, no, I'm a historian with the Heritage Society. I was hoping to talk to you about the history of your farm. Isn't that what the internet's for these days? Uh, I mean, one would think that, but no, we're a little bit more interested in the human perspective. You know, personal stories. We're trying to preserve and illuminate history. Oh, that sounds pretty worthwhile. Yeah. Yeah, it is worthwhile, it's just not urgent. It's gonna have to wait. It won't take me long and I'm already here. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to just drop in like this, but I've left several messages over the last couple months. A couple emails even. And this one didn't call you back? No. Not very professional. There are so many spam calls these days, Dad. I... my apologies. This is my father, William Samuelson. - Kyla Whitmore. - Pleasure. This is my sister, Mandy. Hi. She's a researcher, perhaps she can tackle the, the Silver Pine? If she's here anyway. What's that? I doubt that. The Silver Scots Pine, we developed it in the early days of the farm. It was a perfect tree. Highly sustainable, unique to the farm. Then we lost 'em. Lost? Like how? I... I... I apologize. I gotta get this work done. Well, the entire crop was wiped out in the flood of '78. We haven't been able to recreate them thus far. But, I have made it my life's mission to bring that tree back. Look, look, she's running with it already. Cody's the one with the real skills. He studied innovative horticulture. He just needs a little assistance. Oh, well, as much as I'd love to help, that's not really my area of expertise. Perhaps if Cody's busy though I could sit down and have a chat with you? Hey, that's a great idea. My dad's got all the good stories. I think it would be more effective if you two paired up. You know, put your heads together. You don't have to be a biologist, you just have to understand how to navigate information. Follow leads. The information's gotta be somewhere. Sure, but... She's actually a genius at that sort of thing. - Right? - Yeah. Ok, great, look, so I mean, like, he can help with some of the history and you can help him with the tree. Settled. Hey, I am sorry about our miscommunication, it's just the timing could not be worse, and I'm not the right person to help you out with this, so why don't you give Beverly a call down at the library and records office. It's like our little historical society. What about the Silver Scots Pine? Uh, no. That's not realistic and that is certainly not your responsibility. Don't worry about it. Ok, well, I look forward to talking to whoever will talk to me. Ok. Good luck with that. Thanks. What the hell was that? Son, you really need to work on your people skills. What? There are numerous activities around town. Our festival's the two days before Christmas. There's a tree decorating contest. Here, here's a list. Oh, great. Actually, I'm wondering if you happen to know what time the library and records office closes? Unfortunately, she closed at 4:00PM today but she'll be back open at 8:00AM tomorrow morning. Aw. I guess we'll just have to be on vacation till then. Mmmm. Wow. This B&B is really beautiful. It was one of the original houses in town. Built in 1907 by the founders. Is it ok if I take some pictures? Of course. Be sure to hashtag Conifer Christmas. We're trying to stay up with the times. Actually, these aren't for social media. I'm here doing a bit of research on the tree farm. Oh, that's so neat. The tree farm is practically the foundation of this town. The Samuelsons are very nice. Ah. Well, the main one seems a little... terse. Cody? Nah, he just has a lot on his shoulders this time of year. He might as well be Santa Claus. Well, then Santa Claus needs to work on his Christmas spirit. Cocoa? Oh, yes, thank you. No, I'm ok, thank you. Ah, ah, ah. Yeah, thanks. Come on, I'll give you a tour. - Ok. - Great. Oh! I thought that was real. I can't believe you found us this place. It is so charming. Yeah, it's cute, isn't it? Yeah. Oh, wow. This Silver Scots Pine thing is fascinating. And we've lost her. No, seriously, there's not much info on it. It's like it's a ghost or a long-lost legend. I forgot to tell you! What? Look what I finally found. Oh, Mom will be so happy. Where'd you find it? It was in the back of my makeup drawer. Here. And just in time for Christmas. I feel guilty though. We should split it, or at least share custody since we don't have many family heirlooms. No, no, no, no. Mom wanted you to have this, ok? And besides, I got Grandma's reading chair, remember? That is a good chair. Yes. What is this thing? Oh, it's just some old maps of the area. Make for a good reference. Oh, that's weird. Looks like I grabbed the wrong set. Oh, is this one of your trees? Yeah. It's for us. I made it a long time ago. Oh. Just practice. It's such a shame, the family rift. Stubborn old Grandpa. Yeah. I promise to never ruin our relationship over a mustard recipe like Grandpa. You better not! Oh! Check this out. And look, they have a Christmas cookie baking class. Yeah. Ok, that's definitely going on our list. Mmmhmm. Not that you need help with your baking skills. Oh? Ok, see, that is the kind of guy that I imagine you with. You can bake together, he can help you if you have flour on your cheek. It's a whole vibe. Classic deflection, my dear sister. Connecting everyone but yourself. Ok, yeah, but was my observation inaccurate? Alright, alright, let's go find the records office. Ok. - Well, good morning. - Hello. Library books start here, go to the back. Museum items are sprinkled throughout. Feel free to roam and explore. Actually, I'm looking for Beverly and the records office. I am she, however, the records office is not currently open. Oh. Sometimes being a multi- hyphenate gets tricky. Well, I can relate to that. Here, let me. It's really high up. Thank you. - Thank you! - You're welcome. So, I heard that you are the go to for all things historical Conifer? Perhaps I can pick your brain, tell you what I'm looking for in case it's easy? I suppose I could spare an ear. Great. Ok, I'm trying to get some information on the Christmas tree farm. Hoping to get my hands on some journals, personal histories, maybe land records? You're not with one of these development companies, are you? Hoping to build a resort and day spa, or a chalet? No, no, no. Definitely not, no. I'm with the Michigan Heritage Society. I'm doing a study on the agricultural history of the state, which I'm pretty sure that Conifer's a huge part of, right? - Oh, yeah. - Mandy, wouldn't you agree? This is my sister Mandy, by the way. Well, you're certainly right about that. You look familiar to me. Have you visited Conifer before? No, no, I haven't. But I occasionally guest lecture at universities. Hm. Let me see if I can find anything pertinent up here. Otherwise, I have to wait for office hours. Most of the records are downstairs and it's a whole ordeal. Of course. Thanks. Well, I'll be over here. Nothing here... unfortunately. But, I will see what I can dig up for you during records office hours. Great, ok. Thank you so much for your help. You're welcome. - I'll be back. - Ok. I'm usually so good at getting people to open up. It's where all the fun stuff is. Yeah. Why is everyone so resistant here? I'm not sure. What happens now? Well, probably gonna have to go back to the farm. Figure out some way to get through to that curmudgeonly lumberjack. Oh, though I'm probably going to miss the cookie class at the bakery. Oh. But, that being said, maybe that's not such a bad thing. Oh. No reason. Sure, whatever you have to say to feel better about abandoning your poor sister on our vacation Oh, please, dramatic. No, go, go. Finish your research. We'll catch up later. Ok. Bye. - Good morning. - Good morning I brought you some hot cocoa. I kept it classic 'cause you seem like a no-nonsense kind of guy. You brought me cocoa from my own hot cocoa stand? Yeah. I thought we could make a fresh start. You know, talk about our potential collaboration. Maybe, maybe look into this Silver Scots Pine thing? Beverly couldn't help you? Look, I feel like I pitched this all wrong yesterday. I never even mentioned how good this research could be for your farm. Not only is it likely to bring in more business, but your farm is a big deal. Flattery, huh? No. No, no, no. This is what I like about my job. It keeps meaningful things from disappearing. Besides, I think the history of this place is really important. It's inspiring. And, if I'm being honest, MHS really needs this for a grant, so. Come on, share a little bit of your time. All you gotta do is talk to me about this wonderful place. Ok, you know, your timing couldn't actually be more perfect. Official tree farm walking tour's in ten minutes, so come along, get some info. - Cool. - Thank you. Welcome. So, every tree on the farm takes an average of seven years from planting to harvest. Some take as long as 15. But here on Samuelson farm we don't use any industrial equipment so we plant all of these by hand. Um... Some people think that buying a real Christmas tree is bad for the environment, but for every tree that we harvest we plant three saplings and they all do a super job of converting CO2 and other gases into oxygen in a process which is commonly known as... Yes? Yeah, you know the answer? Do elves help grow the trees? Elves? Um, I... I don't currently employ any elves. But, if he did have elves working for him, I think it would probably be top secret. Fine, yeah. I... Where were we? We, uh... sustainability! So our, our tree farm was one of the first founded in the country. Yeah? How many Christmas trees does Santa have? I don't know. I'll take this one. So, last I heard, between his residence and his workshop, he has a tree for every day in December leading up until Christmas, so what, 25? Though I'd have to check my sources. Like an advent calendar but trees! Exactly. Great. Great. I'm really glad we sorted that out. So, hey, fun fact about how Conifer got its, got its name. I... you know, that, that's the story of the farm, everyone. So, who would like some free cocoa and candy canes? Woo! Hey. This way, everyone. Thank you. - After you. - Children: Thank you. That kid cleaned me out. Your son gives a great tour. Oh, I don't know how great that was. Yeah, Cody doesn't like giving tours. Well, if it's not too bold for me to say, I think I came through with a few valuable assists about Santa Claus and his elves. Well, if people don't want to know what goes into growing the trees then why are they taking the tree farm tour? Oh, well it's funny you should say that because you know who does want to know what goes into growing trees? This girl. That wasn't enough info for you? Cody, I know what photosynthesis is. Come on, I'm here to help. Think of me as an intern. And I would recommend something public-facing seeing as you could really use some help in that department. Hey! Well, I got paperwork to do all day long. You've got those deliveries, so... Oh, uh, no, I can handle it myself. You need a second pair of hands. He never thinks he needs help. Well, I'm happy to be the help that you don't need. Thanks Dad. So, what are these deliveries for? Donations, mostly. Some families are having a tough year, some to public spaces. We always donate a percentage. Hm. That's really nice. So, why are you taking notes if you're still recording? 'Cause you can't flip through a voice memo. One side of this is for MHS and the other side is for the genealogy work that I do. Genealogy, huh? Yeah. There's actually quite the overlap in skill sets. Plus, it's something I love to do. So, now that you've got me trapped, what do you want to know? Well, uh, let's start with how long has the farm been in your family? Generations. My great, great grandfather Erik Samuelson founded it with his business partner, Constance Ferrand. Oh, Constance. That's my middle name too. It means steadfastness. See also relentlessness, stubbornness. Anyways, Constance handed the farm over to my family early on and it was originally founded in 1908. At the time there was really no tenable agricultural land here, so, they actually saved the town. That's really nice. The thought of Christmas trees saving the day. Yeah. Um, look, I actually want to clear the air on something. You're under no obligation to help out with this whole Silver Scots Pine thing. My dad, he just has this idea that there's something out there like a treasure map or hidden formula. That's just not how this works. Also, it's beyond your research ability. Might want to put these on. Thanks. So, how do you know what my research ability is? Uh, did you study horticulture? Agronomy? Biotechnology? Well, no. Like I said, I mean, it's not your area of expertise. It's ok. I don't know anything about historical fact-finding or whatever it is that you do. Ok, for now it's just deliver some trees, ok? Ok, whatever you say. I'm gonna grab this end, take most of the weight. - Ok. - Ok. Alright, now, let's go forward. Ok. No. I'm going forward. Do you mean my forward or your forward? I mean my forward, but it should be your forward. - Ok. - Just wait for me. It's great you came along on this delivery run, you're really helping expedite things. Well, you know, we could have just gone for coffee in the first place, but here we are. Can we go back to that, actually? Take that option instead? No. I'm kind of into this. It's immersive. - It's just on the left here. - Ok. Ok, don't flip again. Fair enough. I'm gonna shove you over this time. - Oh, really? - No. - Go this way. - This way? Yeah, we gotta go this way. You told me that. - Go right in here. - Ok. Woah, woah. Hey, hey, draw bridge. Under you go! That was cute. Hey, great work on the cookies. Thanks. It's a great class. Thanks. Have you been baking for a while? Oh, I sometimes bake for myself, for my sister and mom. You know, just for fun, nothing serious. Well, you seem to have a knack for it. Really? If you're free tomorrow, I'm putting together a large order. I could use a capable apprentice for the day. You can count me in. Great. So, tell me, what was it like growing up on a Christmas tree farm? Well, it was pretty wonderful, actually. Sort of like, everyone else's Christmas was our Christmas too. Dining room table was always covered in plates of cookies, spice cakes. House was always full of guests, just rotating through. Snacking, visiting. I guess when you provide trees for most of the town, you're automatically associated with joy. That sounds magical. Yeah. Yeah. So, you got all your fodder? Any insightful realizations? Some. I noticed that you sigh and rub your head whenever you talk about running the farm. Wanna talk about it? Nah. So there is an "it" to talk about? Look, off the record, why don't you just think of me as a neutral party? Get whatever it is off of your chest. Ok, business has been at an impasse. Most of our business is selling local tree lots across the Midwest. But they're increasingly losing at the big box stores and... well, some tree farms are expanding, growing into that market, but for us, that just doesn't feel right for us. To tell the truth, it's beyond our reach. We're doing ok, just one bad year, one flood, one more drought and we are sunk. To be honest, I don't... I don't even know what the next move is. Wow. Yeah. Well, no wonder you've been resistant to talking to me about this place. It's a lot to carry. What do you want? I don't even think that matters. How could it not? Um, my mom would like to invite you to dinner. She... I guess she heard that you were helping me today. Oh, well, tell her thanks but I should probably have dinner with my sister Mandy tonight. She also says that you will never understand Conifer unless you have her pine nut cake. She's not wrong. And she also says that she's not taking no for an answer. - Wow. - Yeah. Alright, well, dinner it is then. Yeah, well you don't really have a choice now. I guess not. Ok. Well, I'm intrigued. Began the day with curmudgeonly lumberjack and now we're going to dinner. Yeah, I don't know, it just happened. I'm sorry, I feel like I abandoned you. How was your day today? Did you end up going to the cookie class? I did. Apparently, I have a knack. A knack? Yeah, for baking. Ben at the local bakery approved of my skills. That doesn't surprise me. You know, I've always been a fan of your confections. Now, does this Ben happen to be that handsome fellow we saw in the window? Incidentally, yes. He comes from a long line of bakers and he's helping his aunt for the holidays. Which I think is nice. Anyway, they invited me to help out with this big order tomorrow. Oh, that's great. Yeah. Um... hey, can you go easy on the research tonight? I know, I know, it's fertile ground, but this nice family doesn't need to be interrogated all evening. You know I can't promise that. Let's go. Check this out. This is the poster from our opening year. It had both family names on it until 1912. - Wow. - Yeah. This is what I really want you to see. Anyone want a refill? Oh, that would be great, thanks hon. The very first Silver Scots Pine. Oh. Ain't it gorgeous? It really is. It's the perfect tree. Family used to have a little adventure, we'd go seeking out the very best Silver Scott Pine on the whole farm to bring home. Wish Cody had a chance to experience that. I guess though, he still might have a chance. - Maybe, yeah. - Yeah? - There you go. - Thank you. Kyla, did Cody mention that he was the top of his horticulture class? No, he did not. Why would I mention that, Mom? I don't know. Just something to say. Because you're bad. Oh, my god. Oh, is this Cody? It is. He looks so concerned. That's how he looked in all his childhood pictures. Yeah, still does. Figuring out the world's problems at four years old. Well, everyone keeps saying how the tree farm is the heart of the town. And can you think of a better industry than one that deals in the business of Christmas? I don't feel like I've worked a day in my life. I don't know. You might want to consult your back on that one, Dad. Ok. I... I... I threw my back out a couple years ago. Up until then, Cody and I ran the farm together and since then he's taken the lead. Where I help out when I can. He's done an amazing job. Oh, has Cody taken you gals on a tour of the actual town yet? No, but I feel like I've monopolized enough of his time already. Uh, so actually, I... you know I'm wiped. I, uh... Are you? I have to get up early, so... - Are you sure? - I'll take a rain check. - Ok. - Thank you. You're welcome. - But, um, Kyla? - Mm-hm? You should, you should do a tour. You know, for your research. Thank you, thank you so much! - Bye! - Thanks for coming! Have a good night. Gosh, your dad's fascination with the Silver Scots Pine is infectious. It makes me want to go out and find it myself. Tell me about its history. Well, my dad's grandfather, Joseph, he developed it. Ok. And it took only 1/5th the amount of water of the other trees. So, beyond it being beautiful, it actually sustained the farm through several droughts. - Wow. - Yeah. My dad though, he thinks that bringing that tree back is the future of the farm and it's a magical thought but it's not very realistic. Well, he thinks I'm procrastinating, but that's not it. It's just all of my energy is being spent just trying to keep the business going. Especially with the changing market. Does he know you feel this way? No, I... why worry him? I don't want to stress him out. I... That farm is his world. I mean, that's really loving and thoughtful, but it also sounds pretty lonely. Yeah, ok, anyway. What about you? This whole interview format is just me talking about myself. Ok, what do you want to know? Alright, Kyla Whitmore, um... You are a historical researcher. What brought about this whole genealogy side hustle? Thank you for asking, Cody. Um, no, my interest in genealogy actually came from wanting to know my own family. My family tree has always been a bit of a mystery. Hasn't really panned out, but I found I love helping others make those connections. And did you get what you needed today? Yeah, I got a lot from you, once you stopped acting like I was trying to torture you with my questions. No, that's fair. That's... I just need to get access to some records through Beverly. Which I think is gonna be pretty difficult. Oh no, she's a softie. Hm, that's funny. Someone said the same thing about you. - You know what's missing? - What? - A photo of Cody. - Oh! The hero and soul of the whole operation. - Come on! - Alright, alright. - Get in there! - Alright, alright. Ok. Ok. Oh, come on. Don't cross your arms. What? It makes you look so closed off. - Relax! - I don't... I... ok. Just think of Christmas morning after all the hard work's been done. That's perfect. What, is it my bad side? I recognize this building. I recognize this corner of the building over your left shoulder. I gotta go. Thank you so much for all of your stories today and thank you... Yeah, just thank you. Good night. Woah, woah, you shouldn't run, there's ice! - Bye! - Everywhere! Ok. Ok. So? How goes the research? Yeah, you remember this? We found it in Grandpa's things but we could never make heads or tails of it? Yeah? Look here, see that brick building behind her? That's the gift shop. The shape of the numbers, they match and everything. Even the door frame. This was taken here in Conifer. This woman could have lived here. We... we could be from here. And, considering the date, it's possible that this woman was one of the founders of the farm that William kept talking about. Constance Ferrand? So, this is huge, right? I mean, should we call Mom? No, no. I have to proceed carefully. Heck, this could be a postcard for all we know. It wouldn't be so far-fetched. This town was already on your radar. Technically, your work brought you to this place, also her name's Connie. Both our middle names and Mom's middle name is Connie. It's a family name. Ok, that wasn't ever confirmed, but let's just... let's just take this one step at a time. Ok. Ok. I was hoping that you could help me with Beverly? I know you have a rapport with her and well frankly, I'm hoping to piggy back off of it. Yeah, I mean things are taken care of here, Dad's at the fair. I can make that work. Great. Awesome. Ok, so this is the only keepsake that we have from my grandfather. That looks like the Conifer gift shop. Right? That's what I realized last night when I was taking the picture. Do you think it's possible that this could be the Constance that you were telling me about? Maybe. Well, let's find out. - Ok. - Ok. It was found in my grandfather's things. I think this woman might be a relative, possibly my great-great-grandmother. Do you think this could be our Connie? Constance Ferrand? I can't tell. But the date feels right. Though, this could easily be a tourist photo as our tree farm has been a destination from the beginning. Well, that being said. Now, obviously we can't match these two, and I may be going out on a limb but... this looks like a match. Oh, wow. This must be why I thought I recognized you yesterday. You don't have any relatives name Ferrand? Well, I don't know many of them, so it could be out there. The big schism was a fallout over a mustard company, which I don't even know the name of. Would have been the '50s? Mustard drama. Doesn't ring a bell, and it would. Well, I mean there must be something in here that can help connect the dots. Constance Ferrand was a public figure, one would think there would be a lot of information on her but that's not the case. But... There's a wealth of information on Maurice Ferrand, Constance's brother. If Connie might be family, then he might be too. Maybe your great, great uncle? He was a famous bootlegger in the early 1920s. Sort of a town hero. There's a lot of information on him, so maybe something will connect. You could even visit his old bootlegging trail just outside of town. It's literally trail blazed. In the meantime, I'll see what I can find records-wise. For real this time. Oh hey, there's another one. Oh wow. That's so cool. I've never seen a blazed trail before. I did not expect you to be related to a notorious bootlegger. I mean, I can see it. - Oh. - Ow! So, how do you feel? Are you excited? I mean, Maurice, Constance, family. Yeah, you know, I feel hopeful. I'm trying to stay open, keep my mind clear. If you get too attached to an idea it can kind of cloud your perception. Oh, by the way, thank you so much for coming with me today. I feel bad taking you away from the lot. Oh, no, it's important that I came with you. There's rumors that Maurice's ghost haunts these woods. Stop. No, I'm serious, I'm not... Especially around Christmas. - Mm-hm. - Yeah. Mm-hm. And the people have heard his voice on the wind, it's like a spooky owl. Only, instead of going hoot, hoot, he's saying hooch, hooch. Oh, ok. So, you're funny today? Huh? Wow. It's a dad joke. But to be fair, I have maybe been waiting a while to share that one. Look at that marker over there. Doesn't that look like a smiley face? Uh, what? Where? - It's literally right there. - Where? Literally right there, I don't know how you're not seeing that. It's right in front of your face. Do you have better eyesight than me? What are you talking about? - I guess so. - Where? Oh! Unbelievable! - Boo-yah. - Oh, this means war! Ok, ok. Ok, ok, ok. Truce. Truce. Ok. - Truce. Truce. - Ok. No! Woah! Hey. - So, speaking of ghosts. - Hmm. Do you think it's possible that we could see the Silver Scots Pine hiding out here in the wild? Unfortunately, no. Ok. Well, let's say for a moment that my research skills are up to snuff. How would we approach figuring out the Silver Scots Pine thing? Well, so far, I haven't been able to find any notes or guides from my great-grandfather, so it's back to square one, just cross-pollination experiments. A lot of trial and error. Anyways, you don't owe me anything to do with the Silver Scots Pine. I'm not asking because I feel like I owe you something. I just, I don't know, I feel inspired. Why are you veering off course? Don't you want to figure out your family tree? Don't you want to figure out the Silver Scots Pine? Ah. Yeah. Well, it is at the heart of all of my dad's favorite childhood Christmas memories. I do really want to give him that gift someday. To be honest, developing that tree, figuring out innovative ways to run the farm, that's what I'd rather be focusing on. I was at my happiest in grad school, just doing studies, running experiments. Following my curiosity. Kind of like what you get to do. Ok, well then, we should definitely figure something out. I mean, what if your dad's right? What if there is some sort of a treasure map out there somewhere? I find it really hard to believe that your ancestors came up with such an important innovation and didn't just, I don't know, jot something down. I... I mean, my ancestors were intellectually curious but they were not organized. You should see our business storage. Did you say business storage? Yeah. Ok, we have to check that out. Right now. Ok. Ok. Ok. So, you're sure your parents are ok with us taking over their living room? Oh, yeah, of course. Plus, they're not gonna be back until later. They have quite the social life. Two Christmas parties. - Oh wow. - Yeah. I think we should keep some of these shopping lists. Might key us into something. Really? Do you need a table saw receipt from 1973? What? We might need it as a write-off or they could... Well, why are we still talking about the tree anyway? Shouldn't we be focusing on Constance? Shh! Shh! I'm going where it takes me, ok? Thank you very much. Ok. It's funny, I'm seeing the name Lorraine come up a lot in the time period. Who is that? Oh, that's, that's Joseph's wife, my great-grandmother. She was around the farm a lot too, apparently and she also was supposed to be tough as nails. My dad said that Joseph had a whole running list of nicknames for her based on trees. Well, that's adorable. Oh, it's so strange that Silver Scots Pine isn't coming up by name among any of these notes that we've found. Uh, maybe he was just protecting his secret recipe. Maybe. - Oh, here's another one. - Ooh! Oh, wow. I still can't tell if Constance matches the woman in my picture, but this is good. This is really good. There's gotta be at least something in one of these. You think I should hold onto this hot dog hut menu from the 80s'? Hot dogs? Is that a clue? No, uh, I just realized that I'm actually really starving. Oh, um, well, my parents left us a few snacks, so... They also actually have a ton of s'mores supplies this time of the year. S'mores sound perfect. - Ok. - Let's do it. Let's rustle up some s'mores. - Ok, some more sprinkles. - Sprinkles? Ok. Uh, where are your skewers? - Second drawer down on the left. - Ok. Doesn't this kind of defeat the purpose of s'mores? Which is? To huddle around a fire, share stories. You can huddle and share here. Besides, the purpose of s'mores is that they're delicious. You know, when I was little, we grew up in an apartment, so we didn't have a backyard. But, our mom felt strongly that we should not be denied the joy of s'mores on Christmas, so we figured it out on the stove top. Wow, you know, I could still just make a fire out there or something. Just trust me. I cannot believe... So full. I ate like five s'mores. I can't believe you ate five s'mores. You fed me half of them, but still. They were good though. They actually were. I stand corrected. They were good. Mm-hm. So, you have any other favorite traditions? Uh, yeah. My mom was a nurse so she would work these crazy long hours leading up to Christmas so we could have the whole day off together. And then on Christmas we'd stay in our pajamas, eat breakfast and watch movies all day. She has a different job now, but we still do the same thing every year. Just the three of you? Mm-hm. Yeah. To me, the sound of Christmas isn't carolers on the street, it's my mom humming "Silent Night" while she makes her first cup of tea in the morning. Ah. That's really nice. Yeah. Though, you should, you should probably get ready to adjust 'cause your family might be getting bigger. That's true. It's a good problem to have, though. Thank you... for sharing your tradition with me. You're welcome. I should probably get going. Yeah. I totally abandoned Mandy. I, uh, I'll take care of all of this. Yeah? Oh, thank you. Is it cool if I take a few of these? Yeah, of course. Yeah? Awesome. Thank you so much for a fun day. Yeah, and for a great night. Yeah. Um... I'll walk you out. Ok, thanks. You are not going to believe the amazing day I just had. You're not going to believe the amazing day I just had. Oh, wow, you've been busy. Give me your hand. How many sugar cookies did you eat? Oh, are we dancing? Ok, look at this, it's Constance Ferrand. Look at her bracelet. Ok. That's my bracelet! Yeah. Also, the two of you look a lot alike. Beverly thought so too. This is big, right? I'd say, cumulatively, yeah. The picture, the name, the resemblance. The bootlegger brother. Oh, wait, what? Oh, yeah, there's a lot to catch you up on. Well, are we allowed to get excited now? That has to be our great-great-grandmother. That has to be! Yes, yes, we can get excited now. Ok, but 85 percent excited. No, 91 percent. Oh, you are out of control. What have you done with my sister? I still just need to find something on paper. Something definitive, but I think we should get mom a train ticket out here. Day after tomorrow, Christmas Eve, we can show her the town, the festival. Even the tree farm. You, you really do feel good about this. Yeah. I think I can get something solid by then and we can really nail this down and tell her everything. Hey. Some more coffee for you, mademoiselle? Thank you. Wow, you are really focused. Hey! Oh my gosh, I'm sorry. Actually, I've been dying to tell you, I just had a breakthrough that led me to believe that Constance could actually, like, actually, actually be my great great-grandmother. Well, this is good, right? Yes. In fact, it's so good we're bringing my mom out here tomorrow and we're gonna surprise her. But I just, I need some solid enough information connecting her to us still and I've checked my usual databases, I've called a few researchers at the university. So far nothing but there's gotta be something. And also, I'm a little bit behind on getting my original project together for my boss. What, you mean that one where you wouldn't leave me alone, just grilling me endlessly on the history of my farm? That is the one, yes. But he's actually really relying on me, so... Well, maybe you need a break. Hm. Actually, I have an idea. What if I finally give you a real tour of the tree farm? You could gather some more material, tie up any loose ends. I mean, what better way to learn about Constance Ferrand than to explore the farm that she helped create? That would be amazing. Yeah. - Ok. - Thank you. Great. Let me... Yeah, let me get my stuff together. - Great. - Great. Your bag, mademoiselle. Ah, merci beaucoup, monsieur. And these, of course, are Fraser Fir. They're the most popular these days. Got good scent, good needle retention. My dad calls them the Cadillac of Christmas trees. But they're not your favorite, right? No, that would be the Scots Pine. Not to be confused with the elusive Silver Scots Pine. So, you said the growing process is seven years, right? Mm-hm. That's a really long time. I like it. The steadiness of it. I like that it's tactile, hands on. Well, I mean, selfishly, that's also why I don't want to industrialize. I just feel like it'll obliterate everything that I love about it. You know, it's funny, the other day when you were talking about the pressure of this place, I just, I assumed that there was something else you'd rather be doing. That's not it at all. You love the farm. Yeah. I come here, sometimes when I feel overwhelmed. It's kind of like my spot. Oh yeah? What do you do, meditate? Snow yoga? What are you doing? Oh, come on. Snow will break your fall. Ok. Ah! Now, just look up at the sky. Wow. It's beautiful. Everything feels so endless from here. I used to come here when I was a kid. Just lie in the snow. Staring up at the sky, till I got that feeling where I thought I could feel the earth turning. There's actually one more important step. What? Did you just make a snow angel? I did. I recommend it. Ok. It's relaxing. Refreshing. Why as adults did we stop doing snow angels? - Totally underrated, right? - Mm-hm. Ok. I... I thought I'd help Ben with his tree but I wanted to catch up. How was your day? - It was great. - Yeah? Yeah, actually I got a lot of good info on the farm. From the curmudgeonly lumberjack? Well, I don't know. I think he's more of a soulful botanist. Hm. Were you able to find any revelatory facts that we can tell mom tomorrow? No, not really. But, I don't know. I think we might actually have enough. Kyla! - Hi. - Hi! How would you like to be one of our judges for the tree-decorating competition? Oh, I don't know, I mean, I'm just a tourist? Not true, aren't you kind of an expert on trees? Well, I... Maybe. Here. Ok. Come on. We'll have a good time. - Ok, let's do it. - Ok. I have chosen an eco-friendly theme reusing pine cones, putting them back on the tree. It's very circle of life. Or, meta, as the kids say. We've got a baking-themed tree here and the best part is, when you're done, you can eat it. - Oh, right from the bakery. - Yeah. - Love it. - We made it. Love that. I see the popcorn as a nod to corn. Which is an homage to the history of farming in the state. Great. That's nice. Thanks everyone! The trees have been judged and the winners will be announced tomorrow night. You guys are all awesome! Thank you! Yeah? Yeah, yeah. Yeah! So... Oh, hey. I saw that you got promoted to Christmas tree judge. It's a pretty big vote of confidence in the Samuelson family. I did. It was a lot of fun. You let them know about your, your big discovery? No. I didn't really want to jinx it by making a big announcement. It's understandable. So, I have a proposal for you. I just remembered that I have this old recipe for Gl Ãgg, it's a, it's a kind of mulled wine. Oh. Which is descended from Maurice Ferrand himself. That sounds nice. Yeah, and I was thinking maybe we could make some and do some more office record research. Ok. Yeah, that, that would be really great. - Ok. - Yeah. - Ok then. Well, this way. - Let's go. I think I'm gonna try and find something for my mom since all my Christmas presents are back at home. What are you thinking, maybe an ornament with her name on it? Or, oh, they have these really nice Fraser Fir music boxes. Yeah, I don't know. I guess I'll know it when I see it. Oh, this is pretty. She loves irises. Hm. Oh that, that is always a good choice. It's a classic Conifer souvenir. Everything ok? I feel so foolish. Why? This bracelet was my big breakthrough. Mandy has it. Theoretically it was a gift from, from my grandparents, but when I saw it in one of the pictures I just assumed that it was our family heirloom. I just jumped to conclusion without doing any research. I didn't even check my work. It is ok. That's a completely understandable misunderstanding. I feel so silly, bringing my mom here. I think you're being really hard on yourself. You know what will make you feel better? Some warm Gl Ãgg. It's delicious, even if you're not related to Maurice Ferrand. I think I'm just gonna call it a night. I'm not really in the celebratory mood. I'm sorry. Thank you so much for your help today. Yeah. Let me know if you need anything. Sure. Hey. Hey. You think maybe you're overreacting? I mean, you weren't this disheartened before the bracelet discovery. Isn't this just, I don't know, a step back, at worst? Yeah, but can you imagine if every time someone found some old photograph in their grandfather's belongings that they jumped to the wild conclusions that I did? Yeah, but you had to try. You felt it in your gut, right? And that's usually your best compass. I think my compass is off. Well, it's not over yet. I mean, we could still be very close to finding our family. Or, you know, maybe we never will, but perhaps we've made some meaningful connections in the meantime? Like Ben? I'm not talking about Ben. I just wish we had something for Mom. Well, you're not gonna give up, are ya? Didn't think so. Sent. Would you like some tea? I made an extra cup. Yes, I'd love some. Thank you. It's cinnamon apple spice. Oh, by the way, your mom's reservation's all squared away for tomorrow. Thank you so much for doing that. Looks like you've been working hard. How's the farm research going? It's good. Just sent it off actually. You don't seem excited or relieved. It's just a delayed reaction. Also, there was something else that didn't really turn out the way I hoped. Did Cody Samuelson end up being much help? Did he recover his Christmas spirit? He did, actually. Yeah. He's been great. That whole family was so welcoming when I moved here. Oh, I assumed that you grew up here. You have this feeling of being from here. No, I've only been here six years. I inherited this old house actually. The timing was perfect and now it just feels like I was always meant to be here. I think I know the feeling. I made this leap all because of a bracelet that I assumed was one of a kind Thanks, but I have to admit, there was something about being related to Constance Ferrand that felt right, you know? Well, you weren't wildly off-base. That bracelet was modeled on a real bracelet that Constance actually owned. Oh, so there is a chance? Unfortunately, no. I found something in records. Maurice's last will and testament, which states neither he nor Constance had any children. I'm sorry, sweetie. But, as you know, she could still be a distant relative or a family friend which can be just as meaningful... It's Christmas Eve. You're in a beautiful town with one of the best Christmas festivals around. And, you got to learn about the state's early homesteaders and moonshiners. Homesteaders? Pardon? Homestead records. I know this seems conclusive but I'd like to check out one last thing. You said that there's a lot of records at the county office in Fernwood? Yes, but I can't imagine that they're open on Christmas Eve. They're open! Two more hours. Yes! Beverly, you are a genius. Thank you so much for everything. That is great tea. Thank you. Thank you. So, the federal government gave land to these homesteaders so there was a specific process from claim to ownership that had a lot of required documentation, so the information is solid. And not to mention chain of title. So, you are letting yourself get your hopes up again? Well, I just, I know that this is a way to get some definitive information. And I know that this is gonna sound really weird, but I swear this morning that portrait in Beverly's office... It's like her eyes, they were telling me to keep trying. Let's go! F-e-r-r-a-n-d. Got it right here. Her claim is this whole area, here. Oh. Wow. Ok. That looks like it's the tree farm and then some. I guess that makes sense. And after that. That's odd. What's odd? Very odd indeed. It seems like this claim never progressed to certificate of ownership. So, this land should have lapsed back to federal ownership. No, I think that's incorrect. It's currently owned by someone named Samuelson. No, the only land owned by them is a residential lot on Oak Street. Ok. Yeah, this must have slipped through the cracks somehow. So, I'll just put a little flag on that. This is gonna get me to my year-end quota. Deck the halls with Christmas bonuses. No, um, actually, can you not do that? Please? Can we just pretend that I didn't ask? I'm really worried this is gonna make things bad for someone I care about. Ma'am, that would basically be stealing. From the government. What just happened? The tree farm. The Samuelsons, they don't actually own the land. It's probably going to get taken away. Well, isn't there some sort of statute of limitations? Or, I don't know, couldn't they just buy it? No, Cody was already struggling with his options. I can't believe I've done this to him. It's not like you did it on purpose, Kyla. I mean if there's the smallest upside it sounds like you really care about him. I just messed everything up. He's gonna hate me. He has to hear it from me. I have to tell him. Hey. I was just thinking about you. I was worried about you after last night. I have to tell you something. I have to just say it before I... Oh, hey. You ok? No. I messed up. It's ok. In my research of Constance I decided that I wasn't ready to let go, so I went to Fernwood to look in the homestead records. That's a smart idea. What'd you find out? Um, that there was an issue for the deed for this land. The land that the farm sits on. Somehow it had slipped through the cracks and it was Constance's, but now it's no one's. And by looking into it, I inadvertently alerted the county to this discrepancy. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry, it was an accident. - Accident. - Yeah. An accident? What? You think we can just buy up all the land? No, god, no, no, no, no. I know. I know I messed things up. I would never do anything to hurt you or your family. I just... I'm gonna figure it out. I'm gonna fix it. I'm gonna make it right. I... I need some time. Please. No, no. No, no, no. You have done enough already. You could have just let it go. You just came in here and you had to push and you had to dig like you did with the Silver Scots Pine and you just barrel into my life, taking days of my time for your research and not caring if I had time to give. I'm sorry that I was so persistent. I thought you enjoyed the time that we spent together. I have to get back to work. I'm sorry, Kyla. Maybe he just needed time to think. None of that even matters. What's gonna happen to the tree farm, or his family and their livelihood? I mean he's right to be upset with me. I should head to the station to meet Mom. What are we even gonna tell her about why we dragged her out here? I don't know, maybe some crazy tale about tree farmers and bootleggers and how we had a really good time getting ahead of ourselves? Would you be ok with getting her? And I'll meet you at the festival. Yeah. I gotta fix this. I gotta do something. I can't think about anything else. - Yeah. Of course. - Thank you. - Good luck. - Thank you. - Ok, bye. - Yeah, good luck. Oh, Beverly, Beverly! I need your help. Oh, sweetie, you know the records office is closed on Christmas Eve. Go enjoy yourself. No, it's not about me or Constance Ferrand. I went to the records office at the county today and I ended up causing a huge mess for Cody. I was afraid of this. Land ownership is tricky here and the last thing you need is someone digging up records. It's my fault, I should have told you. I have some ideas, or the beginnings of ideas of how to make things right, but I'm really going to need your expertise. Can you help me, so I can help Cody? Yes. I may even have something! Ok. You don't remember where you put it? I'm sorry, you just came in asking about land records, and one never knows these days. I'm very protective of Conifer. - So, what could be in here? - I don't know. But, even an informal paper trail can mean something for them hanging onto the land. There it is! Oh, all it is is some scientific study. This is perfect. Cody, hey. Look, I know you're upset with me, but I really need you to listen. I figured out a strategy for the tree farm going forward. I am all tapped out on the future of the tree farm conversations right now. Look, I really need you to hear me out, ok. This is gonna save the tree farm. Maybe even you. Over the last few days, I've realized just how special the Samuelson's tree farm is. Its innovations involving sustainability are a really big deal. I think it needs to be studied. Partner up with universities. Create work study programs, and then you can open yourself up for grant opportunities and keep the land. You can run the farm at the scale that you want to. You can teach. Show the world how special it is, what you get to do. Honestly, it's such a good idea that I'm almost ok with the fact that I had to nearly ruin your life to come up with it. It's a solid plan, Cody. Please don't reject it just because you fear change. Or because you're mad at me. Beverly has all the details. She can help you. Here. Maybe that can be your first study. We found the Silver Scots Pine studies. Turns out every time Joseph wrote something down, he gave the tree a code name. Lorraine. Which makes sense, since you told me she was so resilient. I guess the loving nicknames go both ways. Anyway, there's your key. Your treasure map. Hope you find what you're looking for. Mom! Wow! Hey. Hi honey. Are you ok? Uh, yeah. It's been an eventful day. Well, I am very happy to see you, and this is all such a lovely surprise. But what made you girls bring me all the way out here? Mandy said that we had to wait for you to get back to explain. Yeah, I guess I'll start from the beginning. - Hey, Santa. - Hey. Festival looks great, as always. Except for this pesky string of lights. Hey, it's a Christmas miracle. Don't touch it. Ah, listen, I've been meaning to say something. I'm sorry for being so stubborn about the farm. You were right to challenge me to try to find a new way. It should be the reverse with fathers and sons. Ok. You really want to have this conversation right now? Yeah, well, something's happened. You know how we've always been kind of unconventional when it comes to deeds and paperwork for the land and farm and we've always had that old adage that all these deals were made with a... a handshake and a word, yeah. Yeah, well it turns out it wasn't just an adage. We might lose the farm. There was never an official deed. So, that land might revert back to the government. This might be the end of an era then, huh? Possibly. Or, it might just be the beginning. I have the perfect Christmas gift for you, Dad. Really? Yeah. It's your treasure map. Silver Scots Pine is finally within reach. And, I'm still working this part out, but this might not just be the key to hanging onto the farm. But to me doing the work I'm excited about. That's great. That's great. Where'd you, where'd you get this? It was Kyla, actually. She is remarkable. Yeah. - Yeah. - Yeah, she is. Maybe you, maybe you found your own personal treasure map. - Maybe. - Maybe. Merry Christmas, Dad. Merry Christmas! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have some thinking to do. Oh, a first time for everything. Hey! So, when I found that bracelet I knew it was over. That's fascinating, and all of this because of a picture. But now you don't think it's true? The last bit of solid information indicated that Constance had no direct descendants. But, we ended up having a great time exploring this new town. And, I have some news. I've decided I want to go to culinary school. - Culinary school? - Yeah. To become a pastry chef. I ended up working with this amazing baker while I was here and... I just, I fell in love with it. And his aunt who owns the bakery, she has a connection at the culinary institute and she's gonna give me a recommendation. I knew it. I knew it. - Honey, I am so excited for you. - That's such great news, sis I think I finally understand you and work. Now, what about this tree farmer fellow? He kept coming up in your story a lot. Like Connie, that ended up not really being the connection I thought it was. Oh, honey. I'm so sorry sweetheart. It's ok. Merry Christmas Eve, Beverly! What are you doing here? Shouldn't you be at the festival accepting your customary first place prize? I should, but I got caught up in a whole saga which made me think of something. I wanted to ask you, were you close with the relative you inherited this house from? Or were they distant family? That is a strangely specific question. I know, but I might be going somewhere with this. Come on in. I've got some mulled wine on the stove. You're gonna want something stronger. - What? - Mm-hm. I went through Maurice's letters and realized his will was a red herring. Because of the bootlegging, he was mixed up with some unsavory characters, so he wrote that lie to protect his extended family. So, Constance Ferrand had two children? Yes. Your grandmother, Cynthia, and your grandmother, Helen. Who married a man by the name of Whitmore. Whitmore? Wait, is your family the one with that crazy mustard empire fallout? Yes! Ferrand was Constance's maiden name, which explains why we lost track of her. I had no idea, this whole time, Constance Ferrand is my great-grandmother. Do you have children? Are there still any cousins around? Oh yeah, the family's getting pretty big. There'll be plenty of people dying to meet you gals. And with two direct descendants, this could very well clear up the tree farm land issue. Thank you. Ho, ho, ho! Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas! Hello everyone! And, now the moment you have all been waiting for. It is my esteemed honor to give the award for the best decorated Conifer Christmas tree this year. And, the award goes to... Beverly Philips! Thank you. Oh, ho, ho! Pause this story, I'll be right back. Woohoo! Nice work. Thank you, Santa. And thank you all for this well-deserved honor. I was looking for you. I was looking for you too. My mom's here. She's having a great time. That's great. At least, she didn't come all this way for nothing, right? Actually, I received some pretty great news on that front. Also, I realized something. You're the first person that I wanted to tell. So, what's the good news? Constance is my great great-grandmother after all. We pieced it all together. I'm sorry that I was so myopic in my search that I didn't see I could have hurt you. No, I'm sorry. I... I shouldn't have said those things. I didn't believe 'em. I... I was rattled. It's understandable. I showed the study of the Silver Scots Pine to my dad. I don't think I've ever seen him so happy. Your idea, to use the farm for work studies, research, discovery. That's so perfect I'm ashamed I didn't think of it myself. So, you think you might go for it? Well, I don't have much choice now, do I? I guess that's true. Although, Beverly thinks that she may have cleared up the land issue as well. Thank you. I mean, your imaginative thinking, your steadfastness, finding the Silver Scott Pine... You saved the farm. You gave it a new life. You gave me a new life. And when you are as resistant to change as I am, sometimes you need something really big to come along and just shake things up. I think the potential loss of your family livelihood counts. I wasn't talking about that. I was talking about falling for you. I was hoping that's what you were talking about. There's just one thing though, about this plan. Mm-hm? I might need some help and I'm kind of working at asking for that, so... You think you can maybe stick around? I'm sure I could figure something out. After all, my family is kind of a big deal in this town.