(This film is based on the true event of "Wushe Incident") (Touch your bloodstained hands) (Can they still hold the sand from our hunting grounds?) You've soiled me with blood Be still! Get out! Who the hell let you in? Don't you know this is the Mehebu hunting ground? I don't care if it's your hunting ground or theirs because everything here belongs to us Japanese now I hate the Japanese no less than you do But do you realize that we're going to die after all this and all our people will be wiped out? Mouna, you must keep the intruders away from our clan Inform the chiefs of all the 12 clans Tomorrow morning... we're going to gather in Wushe and offer a blood sacrifice to our ancestors My children! What are you doing? What on earth are you doing, my children? Tanah, why are you doing this? It was Mouna Rudo's idea (How much regret do you swallow to fulfill your dreams?) (Oh, children! What's wrong with you?) (Oh, my children! What exactly is wrong with you?) (Your dreams are vast like a blue ocean) (We, the Hanaoka brothers are forced to leave this world) (The savages are massacring the Japanese) (bringing forth a situation out of control) (Now we are driven to bay by the savages) (and have no other choices) (lt is 9 o'clock on the morning of October 27th, 1930) (The savages have already occupied most of this region) (The commissioner and all his subordinates) (have been killed in the school) < Warriors of The Rainbow II: Rainbow Bridge > Make a phone call! The Wushe savages are massacring the Japanese Make a phone call! What happened? Make a phone call! Hurry! How did it come to this? Hurry up and call! What happened? What the hell? - What... - The Wushe savages have revolted The Wushe savages have revolted Hurry up and call! Phone! Yes? What? The Wushe savages are massacring the Japanese? Get everybody here right now - Massacre... - Gather all the policemen right away! - The Wushe savages are hunting heads! - All the policemen gather up! All the Japanese in the mountains have been killed And all the police stations have been burned down Only one of the Japanese survived Go back home! Come on! Hurry up! The Wushe savages are coming down to kill more people They're coming to kill us Come on, everyone, hide! - Don't get caught - You bastard! What are you talking about? The Japanese knew already The savages are likely to charge all the way into Puli We're afraid even the plainsmen might seize the opportunity to join in the revolt This is an emergency All county governments please send in their armies and police forces to lay siege to Wushe from Hualien and Tunghih And I want to know if the Governor-general can dispatch the troops from Taipei and Tainan right away The Japanese this way, to the sugar refinery Come on! The family members of the Japanese to the sugar refinery Come on! Hurry up! Put all the stuff away This way! Hurry up! The family members of the soldiers to the feedstock department The family members of the police to the mechanical department The family members of the officeholders to sugar extraction department! Come on! You too. Come on! - Come on! - Savages will always be savages You're nothing but beasts I never know what you savages are thinking It's time for me to teach you a lesson Speak Japanese! No one understands your savage language Your tribesmen have revolted No more peaceful life for you It's chilly! Come on, Pihu! Get a larger chunk of wood Good morning Chief! It's chilly out here Why aren't you inside the house by the fire instead of weaving this bag? It's the first snow of this winter How could I miss it? The snow has come early this year Takun, what are you doing? Takun! Temu, your son will perform well on sports day again, won't he? Takun, what's going on? You've got blood all over your body Takun! What's wrong with you? Chief, today Mouna Rudo from Mehebu Clan led the Seediqs from Tgdaya to offer a blood sacrifice to our ancestors They've occupied the whole Wushe region We Seediqs from Toda should join them as well Let's kill this Japanese man! No way! Kojima is our friend He's a good Japanese, not a bad one Go away! Temu! You're the chief of all the Seediqs from Toda Why don't you drive the Japanese away and lead your own people? Why should you expect the good Japanese to rule us? He's right! We don't have any Japanese friends Don't come any closer! Kojima, we'll let you answer the phone But... do you have the guts to do it? Have I been bad to you? Kojima... Is this how you repay me? I can't fight back if you want me dead But the Japanese government will do anything to punish you We might as well die together Kojima! We have airplanes, but do you? We have machineguns and cannons, but do you? Think about how Mouna Rudo used to insult you Last time when we're out hunting they threatened to kill you all Don't you remember? Are you willing to die with them in the battlefield? Temu Walis, you won't have the chance to grow up Hello? Take it easy! There's more! Hurry up! Come on! Chief Mouna? Thank you Thank you. Thank you all Thank you - Thank you - Come on! Thank you. Thank you all Thank you Tado! Sapu, where's my father? What's going on? Why did they want us back? Father, why did you give up Hakaw Supeitei? So you're back! Come on, let's go back to our clan Back to our clan? You're giving up here as well? Tado, you can't think like the Japanese when fighting them You have to think like the wind The wind? The wind is invisible Baso, give up everything, everyone and come back to the clan with me Japanese airplanes! - Over there! - Fire! Shoot it! Come on! Are you so scared? Are you really so scared? I went head hunting for the first time when I was 15 I was so nervous that my arms and legs were trembling But my eyes were sharp as arrows As soon as I cut the enemy's head off I forgot what it was like to be scared because I knew I'd go back to my clan to feast and celebrate, being treated as a hero because I knew that all my people male and female, young and old would respect me for my bravery However, it's different this time We successfully offered a blood sacrifice to our ancestors today and are now qualified to stride over the rainbow bridge but what awaits us now is not a festive feast but to choose how we die Run the electricity! Before we initiated the revolt you knew it'd turn out like this, didn't you? My children... ...don't be scared You've been very brave today Our ancestors' spirits have seen it all But the battle to come is the real one It's a battle that will terrify the invaders Someone's here! Sisin babblers in the forests are driving off the scavenging crows The rainbow will be more beautiful in the sunlight after the rain It's a bunch of Hans from Wushe Lock them all up! My children... ...don't be afraid Our ancestors' spirits know we're good warriors guarding our hunting grounds The blood stains on your hands can prove it Every one of you is a Seediq Bale Remember, you have to be proud Let's cross the rainbow bridge together Nobody's guarding here Not a single soul on this path How could it be? Advance! Wait! Stop! Halt! Don't rush uphill I know these savages all too well What a chilly night! It's warm here Savages! Hold the fire! (I'm trekking over the high mountains) (The creek water is so thick and muddy) (I can't help but shed my tears) (I'm walking along a wide road) He's asleep Ichiro? Today is our wedding anniversary You remember, don't you? (We're walking on with perseverance and determination) (We can't fall asleep anymore) (Let's go back to the heavenly home of our ancestors) Kojima! Long time no see Captain! Let me introduce you, Captain This is the chief of Tnbarah Clan, Temu Walis Got a good head on his shoulders Kojima? I heard all your family were killed in the venue? We will seek revenge Attack! Officer, nothing here Officer Goto! What the hell are these savages up to? The Japanese are coming! - Look behind you - Yeah This clan is over here This clan is over there Behind them is a creek Where do the Hans live? The Hans... We're under attack! Duck! Hide! Awata! Awata! Contact the Oizumi Squad and find out where they are now This is Wushe Substation This is Oizumi Squad We're now by Suku Creek We're ambushed by the savages. We need back up We're stuck in the creek water Oizumi Squad... Captain? Assemble a banzai squad for a suicide charge Where is Yamada Police Squad? Charge! Pihu, let's go! Watch out! Dodge! Duck! Seek cover! The women and children from Boarung Clan are all here Come on, let's go! Have you packed up enough clothes, Mahung? Yes, I have Pawan, you kids know how to get there Take the Boarung women and children along with those of us that are ready Baso, I'm no longer a child Don't let the dogs follow us We don't have enough food Mahung, are you ready? Is it heavy? Mahung, you go ahead with Pawan and others I'll wait for Sapu Why is everyone in here? Mother, don't touch that! You're out of your minds! The men in this house have all gone mad Go ahead to Paran Clan, Obing No! Jiro, let me stay with you Jiro! - Let go of me! - All pregnant women go to Paran Clan Auntie, I'm the wife of a policeman but I'm the daughter of the Gungu Chief as well Auntie, let go of me! - let go... - Give birth to your child in Paran Clan Jiro! I want to stay with you! I don't want to go there, Auntie! Give birth to your child in Paran Clan They're all pregnant The Japanese won't harm them Pawan! What is it? The cavern is right up ahead You can carry these over by yourselves We have to go now But where to? - No, Mother! - Grandmother! - Mother! - Grandmother! - No, Mother! - Grandmother! What are you doing? Mother, don't! - Grandmother! - What are you doing? Chief Mouna and others will be here soon - Grandmother! - Mother! You'll have to fight the Japanese for a long time There's not enough food for all of us What are you talking about? Chief Mouna told us we're going to fight our decisive battle soon Grandmother! Pawan! I'm so glad that you're a warrior now guarding our hunting grounds We'll be waiting for you at the other end of the rainbow bridge You'll be meeting us after you finish your glorious battles Stop following us! - Fight for your hunting grounds - Mother! Grandmother, don't you want me anymore? Mother! Pawan, please tell my husband Watan that I'll have the wine ready for him at the other end of the rainbow bridge Watan is building up huts in the cavern You can go tell him yourself Lubi! Lubi! - Stop following us! - Mother! - Don't follow us! - Mother, don't! - Please... - Mother! - Don't cry - Grandmother! Listen to me... you're a grownup man now Go on! - Grandmother! - To the battlefield! - Fight for your hunting grounds! - Grandmother! To the battlefield! Grandmother! - Mother! - Grandmother! Mother! - Don't go, Mother! - Grandmother! Mother... (With tears in my eyes) (I'm walking along a wide road) (I beseech you) (Tell me if your hearts are at peace) (Oh, poor innocent children) (What's the matter with you?) (We're really exhausted) Hanako? You look just as pretty as you were on our wedding day Good boy! Close your eyes! My child, let's go together Jiro? Are we the subjects of Japan's Mikado? Or the descendants of the Seediq ancestors? Do it Cut it up and end your conflicts right here and now We don't have to go anywhere once we're dead Let's both be free wandering spirits Thank you This way please, General This is Officer Kabasoa, sir He's a local policeman and he knows the Wushe savages very well Then why are you still alive? He was not there when the incident happened General, according to our investigation there are six clans involved in the revolt over 300 warriors in all Warriors? You call them "warriors" Each of these clans took actions separately at dawn and annihilated the local police stations Then they got together to besiege Wushe That's why we don't think it incidental They had been planning it carefully from the beginning Planning it carefully? Mr. Kabasoa? Don't you think you're overestimating these savages? General, all our reinforcements were under fatal attacks yesterday ...including here This is nothing but animal-like savagery Once the rain stops, we'll besiege them immediately Yes, sir! (Headquarters of Kamada Detachment) Chief, are we going for the decisive battle tomorrow? Ah, it hurts! Chief, the wounds are still fresh Pawan, you're not a child anymore Chief, can we fight the decisive battle now? What's happening? Give me the gun! Hurry up! Let's go! Hurry up! Be careful! Go over there! Be careful! Stop! The savages! Stop running! Over there! What the hell? Fire! Retreat! All retreat! Hurry up and run! Seek covers! Down there! Signalman, call for reinforcements Retreat downhill! Hide! Out of the way! Watch out! Quite slippery here Are you alright? Halt, everyone! Jump! Machine gun! - Step back! - Take aim! You're aiming too high! Hold on to your guns! Come on, fire it, Sapu! What are you waiting for? I can't fire it Move over! I'll do it! Come on! Hurry up! What the hell? Fell asleep or something? Over there! Come on! He's gone! If I aim at the rock deliberately will the bullet bounce off and hit the officer over there? Why don't you give it a try? No, it won't Have you two got too many bullets? No, but that is a military officer with a katana sword Chief, Tado robbed a couple of machineguns Chief Mouna asked us to bring you one... and... here's the ammunition and... and this bag of sweet potatoes Kids nowadays are so weak Look how they pant with so little running Do you know how to use it? I don't think this machinegun works Why did you give me one that doesn't work? That damned Mouna! Chief Dahdo... My Paran relatives told me... that your entire family committed suicide Chief Dahdo, a bigger and more powerful army is coming our way They have lots of cannons Pawan, when I was young I was no less strong or brave than your Mehebu Chief Mouna Rudo you understand? Awi, lead the group and retreat to Rkudaya Chief! Chief! Chief! Retreat! To Rkudaya! Give it to me! Let's go! Retreat to Rkudaya! Our chief's dead! Come on! Pihu, come on! Retreat to Rkudaya! Come on! To Rkudaya! Come on! Let's go! Fire! Chase them! Come on! Run in separate ways! Let's meet up in Rkudaya! Hurry up! Come on! Awi, come on! Here comes the airplane again! Why is Pihu still there? Come on! Hurry up, Pihu! The bridge is collapsing! Come on, the bridge is collapsing! Medic! Medic! Hurry up! No matter which route we took we were ambushed by them These savages are too good at this We should ask for more reinforcements, otherwise... With thousands of soldiers and all kinds of powerful weapons and you ended up being toyed with by 300 savages? Our airplanes have been patrolling and bombing all this time without killing any savage And you call yourselves military officers? Those savages played hit and run They're like ghosts They ran easily over the ragged mountain paths that we barely walked properly on We never knew where they came from or where they disappeared to They were so unpredictable For example, a kid named Pawan Nawi... We saw him here the day before yesterday but we found him here yesterday Then he was here today These are three different places far away from one another No one knows how he managed to do so I don't know. Pawan, have you fought any battle? - Pawan! - Chief Mouna! Chief Dahdo Nokan from Gungu Clan was killed in a battle Has anyone seen Mouna Rudo yet? Answer me! No, sir That old bastard! He had the guts to revolt but he dares not confront me personally What kind of warrior is he? What kind of chief is he? Be quiet! They've got lines and lines of defense and endless reinforcement I can't believe those savages would have battle plans so well-knit Ask the high command to provide us with gas bombs Gas bombs? I wanted you to be civilized but you forced me to be savage You're Mouna Rudo but I'm Kamada Yahiko From now on... you're part of the Japanese military and police forces You'll have to follow our wartime decrees Those of you who fight bravely will be rewarded accordingly But those of you who fail to take orders from the Japanese police or run away will be punished harshly by law Do you understand? Now I'm announcing the bounties of head-hunting We'll give every one of you a gun Come and sign for it after this A chief... 150 to 200 dollars An able-bodied man, 100 A woman, 30 A child, 20 And a special bounty for the head of... ...Mouna Rudo! Gas bombs? But sir, gas bombs are still being experimented on We don't know the effects yet Yes, sir But currently it's not ready for use Yes, sir Come on! Watan, you go that way! Sapu! I'm alright. They hit my sweet potatoes Don't stop! Run! Shoot! Shoot him! Come on! Out of the way! Over there! - A Seediq from Tgdaya! - Where? He's over there! Kill him! Burn it down! Temu! Come on! Run! Chief Mouna! It's me, Pawan Chief Mouna! It's me, Pawan Nawi Chief Mouna, we heard what Baso told you We know that a large number of Japanese soldiers have gathered in Suku Clan Time for the decisive battle, isn't it? Chief Mouna, we have no family now Why don't you let us fight? Like everyone else, none of us can sleep or eat and we don't want to be killed by gas bombs Chief Mouna, look at the tattoos on our faces We're not children anymore Please let us fight the Japanese like everybody else Then I can have a good, long rest We're so tired We're really exhausted My children, do you remember where our ancestors came from? Mt. White Stone... - I know. Once upon a time... - Let me tell the story! Quiet! Can't you wait? A good hunter should learn how to lie in wait! Pawan, you tell the story Once upon a time on Mt. White Stone there was a big tree called Pusu Qhuni The tree trunk... was half wood, half stone One day, a boy and a girl were born from the tree trunk Then the couple gave birth to lots of children and here we are, the Seediq Bale Let me help you, Awi It's ready, my brother I'm ready Let go, my brother Pihu Walis... - Don't go! - Let go! I'm in great pain Don't go I'm not fighting anymore! No more! You son of a bitch! What do you mean by not fighting? Kojima! - What do you mean by that? - Kojima! Pick it up! Pick up your gun! - Out of my way! - Temu! Temu! We fight to offer blood sacrifice to our ancestors not to revenge the death of your family Temu, I know what you saw but Mouna Rudo has spread the word asking for your head This is not the time to make trouble Father, you told me only the bravest warriors are qualified to guard the most beautiful hunting ground So that's why Mouna Rudo's people and we have to fight one another constantly to prove to our ancestors that we're the bravest warriors? So in the eternal hunting ground at the other end of the rainbow we'll become allies forever and there would be no more hatred? Yeah, I guess so I want to fight them if possible to prove my bravery Sleep, my boy Is that our man? Get him! He's a savage! Come on! Stop! What's wrong? A savage ran over the suspension bridge into the woods - From there? - Yes, from there Gather up! Gather up, First Team! Gather up! First Team! Stop! Good Come closer... Good Stop, you little bastard Aoki! - Okubo! - Aoki! - Where are you? - Aoki! - Okubo! - Aoki! Aoki! Okubo! Let's split up and search! Aoki! Okubo! Aoki! Stop! Everybody, stop! These Seediqs from Tgdaya are driven crazy by hunger Okubo! Where are you? Aoki! Where are you? Okubo! Someone's there! - Where? - In that tree! Get down! - Get down! - Hide! Machineguns? Get the mortars! Signalman! Signalman! Here come the savages! It's you then Chief, Baso is hit! Baso! Baso! Baso! We're in the Mehebu Forest Baso! Baso! Baso, are you alright? Baso, be still! Retreat! Come on, retreat! Get out! Get out! Hurry! Inside the hut! Come on! Get in! Come on! Out of here! Don't come in! Get out! Come on! Run! Yes, sir Is it Mehebu Clan? Yes, sir Aim all cannons at the Mehebu Forest End this battle before the sun's out Tado! Kill me! Come on! It hurts so badly! Out of the way! Cut my head off! You hear me? Get off him! It's beautiful So beautiful Stop firing please They ran away Fight till you drop! Seediq Bale! Fire the cannons! Fire! We're under attack! You damned Japanese! Get out of our territory! You bastards! Get out! That's one favor I did you Mehebus today helping you drive our the intruders Out of my way! Let me kill them! Temu, give me the bullets! Come on! Look out! Climb up there! Sine! Sine! Sine! Sine! Sine! Stop! Come back here! You take care of him! Load the guns! Come on! Pawan? You Japanese are finished! - Quick! - Catch him! Off with his head! Stop! Don't let him slip away! Mouna Rudo! Stop running! Kill until our blood runs out! Cut off their heads like true warriors! The heavenly home of our ancestors, here we come! I'm a chief, not your little brother Iyung! Iyung! Don't touch it, Iyung Iyung! What are you doing? Move! Look out! It's falling down! Pawan! Get out of there! Pawan, get out now! Pawan! Iyung! Iyung! Are you alright? Pawan, I've got a good gun What's wrong? - Batu! - Dakis! Move! Ubus! Come on! The Japanese are out! Watch out over there! There's one behind him! Don't go there! Stop! Bomb! So you're Mouna Rudo Now I see you clearly Tado, how do we dodge those cannons? Chief, let this ghost lead the way Fire! Look! Cherry blossoms everywhere! (Those who come forward voluntarily will be spared) (Come to the shelters to surrender) (I'm crossing the rainbow bridge) (I am Mouna Rudo) (Look at the road I've trodden) (No one's ever gonna stop us) (The determined warriors) (We're home with our enemy's heads) (We're true warriors, like budding pine leaves) You must be starved and you must be exhausted It's time to decide your future If you want to take your own life, do it If you want to turn yourself in, go ahead If you want to keep fighting... Tado... My dear son... The hero of Mehebu Clan Lead them to fight until you use up all your bullets Father! Chief... Warriors, forgive me Forgive me I don't want the Japanese to insult me in front of my people Forgive me I'll be waiting for you on the mountain peak Let's cross the rainbow bridge together to the eternal hunting ground Father? Go... Seediq Bale! Chief Mouna? Bakan, bring over everyone from the chief's family Iwan, go back and tell our people in the cavern that those who don't want to surrender may as well kill themselves I want to fight! Me too! It's over! Mouna! Mouna, where's your ancestral spirit? Where is it? There could be greater suffering if you survived Wipe your face clean Thank you, women and children for sacrificing yourselves to complete the men's souls (Shelter for Savages Protect) She's awake! That savage woman is awake! Officer Kabasoa! - What's going on? - That savage woman is awake - Is it Mahung? - Yes, sir Excuse me! Let me through! Mahung! Mahung! Mahung... I'm Kabasawa. I've been to your house Do you remember me, Mahung? Why did you save me? My husband and children are waiting for me Mahong... 100 dollars Son of a bitch! What are you doing? Don't put it on the desk! What are you looking at? Next! It's only a child. You can't get 100 for it Get it off! It's Temu Mouna from Truwan Clan What child? Don't you see the tattoos on his face? Put it over there! What a nuisance! It's Tanah Robe, the Boarung chief One of you from Gungu Clan killed our chief This one is Pawan Nawi from Mehebu Clan Ukan! Tado! Where are you? (Where is that father going?) (The father carrying a child on his back) (is setting out to shoot the two suns in the sky) (They go on and on for a long way) (The child grows up) (The father dies at an old age) (The child takes his father's bow and arrows) (The child follows his father's footsteps) (toward the rising suns) (He gets there at last) (The child gets there at last) (The child shoots a sun down with an arrow) (The sun loses its rays) (The dead sun becomes the moon) (He's a sun-shooting hero) (The sun-shooting hero is returning home) (The sun-shooting hero has come a long, long way) (The sun-shooting hero is home at last) (But the hero is already gray-headed) (I am drunk today) (I saw him on the way) (The boy from the freezing winter) (A fair-skinned boy like a budding pine leaf) (Let's dance together) (Let's enjoy ourselves) (I'm drunk today) (Young girls, let's dance together) Surrender? Why should we surrender? We've had our enemy's sake wine Doesn't that mean conciliation? Why do we have to surrender? - Tado... - Say no more! Come on, drink with me Mahung, my little sister... it's much easier for me to die than for you to go on living But you must endure and have lots of children Teach them everything about the pride of our father Let your children have even more children and more and more... Mahung, have lots of children Raise them up to be proud Seediqs and to live on with pride Do you understand? Father, Baso and I... along with all our fallen people will be watching over you from the rainbow bridge Look! The sun is so beautiful Oh, my wife! (Is the wine ready now?) (Here I come, my wife and children) (On my way to the heavenly home of our ancestors) (Wait a little longer for me please) (I'll be seeing you soon) (We're already on our way) (Oh my wife and children, wait a little longer) (Wait for us on the way to the heavenly home of our ancestors) (Oh my wife and children, wait a little longer) (We're almost there) (We're about to cross the road) (We'll be seeing you in no time) (Wait for us on the way to the heavenly home of our ancestors) (Oh my wife and children, wait a little longer) (We're almost there) (We're about to cross the road) (We'll be seeing you in no time) (Pihu Sapu was beaten up to death) (in the detention house after he got caught) (Tado Mouna and the last surviving warriors all committed suicide) (Mouna Rudo disappeared without a trace) 300 warriors against thousands of soldiers Those survived the battle killed themselves eventually Why did I see in such a remote mountain area in Taiwan the bushido of samurais that died over a century ago in Japan? Is it because the cherry blossoms here are far too red? No, these flowers have bloomed early this year It isn't the season of cherry blossoms yet (After the incident... ) (Kojima Genji instigated the Seediqs from Toda) (to revenge the death of their chief Temu Walis) (by killing all the remaining defenseless tribesmen) (staying in the shelter during the night) Out of the way! Hurry up! (The few surviving tribesmen were forced) (to relocate to a compound along Peikang River) Out of the way! (where the Japanese could monitor them easily) (They burned down all their remaining houses) (before they left) (Four years later... ) (Mouna Rudo's remains were found) (inside a cavern, somewhere deep in the mountains) (Half of his body rotted to skeleton) (while the other half was weathered to a mummy) (ln the following year... ) (the Japanese publicly displayed his remains and weapons) (in a wooden crate at the exhibition celebrating the completion) (of Nenggao City Hall construction project) (After that, his remains disappeared once again) (at the heavenly home of our ancestors) (Yes, it's for real) (Reminisce the people from the past) (After the second disappearance) (Mouna Rudo's remains were recovered 39 years later) (in the specimen room of the College of Medicine) (in National Taiwan University) (Escorted by his offspring) (after 43 years, he finally returned to his hometown Wushe) (to be buried properly) (We go hunting in the mountains) (We share food in our clan) (We fetch water from the creeks) (I'm willing to give my life for these) (Oh, creek! Be quiet!) (Sisin babblers are singing) (Sing us a beautiful song please) (Sing for our people) (a song of our ancestral spirit) (I'm willing to give my life too) (When the lightening rifts the rock) (a rainbow appears) (and a proud man emerges) (A proud man emerges) (Who is this man so proud?) (It's your offspring) (A Seediq Bale) Once upon a time on Mt. White Stone there was a big tree called Pusu Qhuni The tree trunk... was half wood, half stone One day, a boy and a girl were born from the tree trunk Then the couple gave birth to lots of children and here we are, the Seediq Bale (Behold! The beautiful rainbow over the hilltop) (My wife and children, have you brewed the wine?) (Drink it! The wine we offer to our ancestors' spirits) (Behold! What beautiful rainbow!) (My ancestors are calling me) (My wife and children! Are you on your way to meet our ancestors spirits?) (We should get going too) (Stand still, our people who keep the bloodline going) (We will be proud like a true Seediq) (Our bodiless spirits will be watching over you from the rainbow bridge) (Tell every child to live on forever) (To live on like a true Seediq) (Our bodiless spirits will keep you company in the woods) (Behold! What beautiful rainbow!) (My ancestors are calling me) (My wife and children! Are you on your way to meet our ancestors spirits?) (We should be on our way too) (Stand still, our people who keep the bloodline going) (We will be proud like a true Seediq) (Our bodiless spirits will be watching over you from the rainbow bridge) (Tell every child to live on forever) (To live on like a true Seediq) (Our bodiless spirits will keep you company in the woods) - (Look!) - (Drink! Drink!) - (What a beautiful sky!) - (We should be on our way) - (Look!) - (Drink! Drink!) - (What a beautiful sky!) - (We should be on our way) (Children!) (Did you see that? We see the rainbow) (Children!) (Did you see that? We see the rainbow) (Children!) (Did you see that? We see the rainbow) (Children!) (Did you see that? We see the rainbow) (Children!) (Did you see that? We see the rainbow) (Children!) (Did you see that? We see the rainbow)